[update] About Managed Service for TimescaleDB (#1704)
timescale/docs: _troubleshooting/mst/transaction-wraparound.md

---
title: PostgreSQL transaction ID wraparound
section: troubleshooting
products: [mst]
keywords: [transaction ID, freezing, autovacuum, control mechanism]
tags: [tshoot, ]
---

The transaction control mechanism in PostgreSQL assigns a transaction ID to
every row that is modified in the database; these IDs control the visibility of
that row to other concurrent transactions. The transaction ID is a 32-bit number
where two billion IDs are always in the visible past and the remaining IDs are
reserved for future transactions and are not visible to the running transaction.
To avoid a transaction wraparound of old rows, PostgreSQL requires occasional
cleanup and freezing of old rows. This ensures that existing rows are visible
when more transactions are created. You can manually freeze the old rows by
executing `VACUUM FREEZE`. It can also be done automatically using the
`autovacuum` daemon when a configured number of transactions has been created
since the last freeze point.

> In Managed Service for Timescale Cloud, the limit to scale is set according to

Reviewer: scale limit?

> the size of the database up to 1.5 billion transactions. This ensures 500

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the size of the database, up to 1.5 billion transactions. This ensures 500
```

> million transaction IDs are available before a forced freeze and avoids the
> churn of stable data in existing tables. To check your transaction freeze

Reviewer: ```suggestion
million transaction IDs are available before a forced freeze and avoids
churning stable data in existing tables. To check your transaction freeze
```

limits, you can execute `show autovacuum_freeze_max_age` in your PostgreSQL

> instance. When this limit is reached, `autovacuum` starts freezing the old rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance. When the limit is reached, `autovacuum` starts freezing the old rows.
```

> Some applications may not automatically adjust their configuration based on
> actual PostgreSQL configuration and may show unnecessary warnings. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some applications do not automatically adjust the configuration when the PostgreSQL 
settings change, which can result in unnecessary warnings. For example,
```

PGHero's default settings alert when 500 million transactions have been created

> instead of alerting after 1.5 billion transactions. Change the value of the
> `transaction_id_danger` setting from 1500000000 to 500000000 to receive warnings
> when the transaction limit reaches 1.5 billion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of alerting after 1.5 billion transactions. To avoid this, change the 
value of the `transaction_id_danger` setting from 1,500,000,000 to 
500,000,000, to receive warnings when the transaction limit reaches 1.5 billion.
```

---
title: PostgreSQL transaction ID wraparound
section: troubleshooting
products: [mst]

> topics: [transaction ID]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

IMO 'transaction ID' isn't hefty enough to qualify as its own topic. I see topics as things like "hypertables", "schemas" that have their own section in how-to guides. Might be a bit nitpicky but this will help us keep things clean when we try to auto-generate pages.

keywords: [transaction ID, freezing, autovacuum, control mechanism]
tags: [tshoot, ]
---

The transaction control mechanism in PostgreSQL assigns a transaction ID to
every row that is modified in the database; these IDs control the visibility of
that row to other concurrent transactions. The transaction ID is a 32-bit number

> where two billion IDs are always in the `visible past` and the remaining IDs are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where two billion IDs are always in the visible past and the remaining IDs are
```

reserved for future transactions and are not visible to the running transaction.
To avoid a transaction wraparound of old rows, PostgreSQL requires occasional

> cleanup and `freezing` of old rows. This ensures that existing rows are visible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cleanup and freezing of old rows. This ensures that existing rows are visible
```

when more transactions are created. You can manually freeze the old rows by
executing `VACUUM FREEZE`. It can also be done automatically using the
`autovacuum` daemon when a configured number of transactions has been created

> since the last point of freeze.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
since the last freeze point.
```

In Managed Service for Timescale Cloud, the limit to scale is set according to
the size of the database up to 1.5 billion transactions. This ensures 500
million transaction IDs are available before a forced freeze and avoids the
churn of stable data in existing tables. To check your transaction freeze
limits, you can execute `show autovacuum_freeze_max_age` in your PostgreSQL
instance. When this limit is reached, `autovacuum` starts freezing the old rows.
Some applications may not automatically adjust their configuration based on
actual PostgreSQL configuration and may show unnecessary warnings. For example,
PGHero's default settings alert when 500 million transactions have been created

> instead of an alert after 1.5 billion transactions. Change the value of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
instead of alerting after 1.5 billion transactions. Change the value of the
```
